First and foremost, as other reviewers have mentioned: do not buy this phone from Amazon as it costs less buying directly from Google play. Also, this review will be long and somewhat incoherent, but I'll try my best to cover as much as I can about this phone.

A little bit of information about me, I am a computer hobbyist whose first venture into the realm of smart phones is the Nexus 4. Yes, it's been a long time coming, but I've never felt compelled to join the ranks of mobile tech enthusiasts until now, and the reason boils mainly down to the fact that the Nexus 4 is, at least in my opinion, the best bang for the buck you can get within the vast selection of Android smartphones out there.

The hardware, even now, is still top of the line when it comes to the combination of processor, GPU, and the 2GB RAM. It's far ahead of its time relative to the software optimized for it, given the fact that the iPhone 5 can match and even exceed the Nexus 4 in various benchmarks, despite the iPhone 5 having inferior hardware and less RAM. Therefore, people who opt to purchase this phone won't find it crucial to move up to the next one for quite some time, unless they want the absolute bleeding edge of technology. One important thing to note is that, because smartphones in general lack any sort of self-cooling system or even a heatsink to quickly disperse the heat elsewhere, doing CPU and GPU intensive tasks will heat the phone up quickly and can cause system throttling, which lowers the performance of the phone in order to preserve the life span of the components and the battery.

The built in microphone quality, as far as phone calls goes, has been clear enough for my purposes. I don't expect too much out of microphones, and this one has not disappointed me yet in conversational clarity. For video sound capture, however, it seems a bit unsuited for expeditious recording, but may be adequate for stationary recording. Being on the T-mobile Unlimited Plan, myself, I found the data speeds to be more than adequate and the Wi-Fi reception to be comparable to that of laptop quality. The Nexus 4 has a dual band HSPA+ 42 which means that it transfers data from two towers at once, obviously making the signal much stronger and more consistent than single band. Finally, the screen quality represents the same level of clarity as my desktop LCD, as far as I can observe, which is impressive by my standards.

On the subject of operating systems, the Nexus 4 separates itself from the Android competition by being first in line for Android updates. This is because the other manufacturers who advertise their own features to the Android operating system, such as Samsung and its Touch Wiz, have to take time and implement their own features with each and every update. As a result, nearly all of the other phones must wait a few months to receive the latest updates, which may or not be of great concern to the general smartphone consumer. It is also important to note that Android smartphone users are free to format their phones and implement whichever version of Android they please, modded or otherwise, but doing so is not for the faint of heart. Incidentally, I've noticed that the Nexus 4 snappiness is slightly, but noticeably smoother than the Samsung variants I've demo'd so far. One potential downside is that Nexus 4's Android OS, more commonly known as "stock android", is somewhat less user friendly than the flavors of Android that are reworked for the purposes of other Android smartphone manufacturers, which has perhaps, in part, lead to the Nexus 4 being dubbed "the Android developer's phone".

The build quality, as noted by other reviewers in ambivalence, has style more in mind than durability. Both the back and the front appear to be gorilla glass (though I could be wrong on this), but the back glass lacks the oleophobic coating that is, in actuality, what deters scratches and fingerprints, not the glass itself. The oleophobic coating is a very thin layer whose presence is known by the slickness that gradually fades as the coating wears away over time and wear. The good news is that, for those who don't want to purchase screen protectors and enjoy the slick feeling of the coating, there are oleophobic coating replacement kits on Amazon that have enough supply to very quickly and easily reinforce the coating for months and months. However, I would personally recommend not only a screen protector (since they last longer and add additional, albeit slight, shock protection to the screen and usually don't require replacements), but also a durable protective case, since the glassy nature of the Nexus 4 puts smartphone care on the difficulty level of hard mode.

As far as unlocked phones go, and they're rather taboo nowadays due to the silly for-profit legislation, the Nexus 4 is priced far lower than its competition. And while $299 for the 8GB version and $350 (prices may vary in the future) for the 16GB version seem like very tempting deals, there are some general consumer expectations that this phone meets and does not meet.

The battery life, for me, was very manageable. Of course, it must be said that I am a moderate user, with the knowledge that screen brightness and just having the screen on drains the battery more than anything else one could possibly be doing with it. It is important to note that there are programs that one can find in the app store for free that can assist in managing the phone's battery life, especially ones that put the phone into deep sleep when the phone is off. People may often wonder why their batteries drain so quickly outside of active use, and this is often due to background programs continuously utilizing the CPU and consequently draining the battery. A bit of research can go a long way, as the greater freedom of Android also comes with it a greater chance to find ourselves in unfavorable scenarios if we're not careful. It may take a some fine tuning, but the time, effort and results are worth it. I have been able to get through an entire waking day, with a total on-screen time of about an hour and a half watching YouTube videos and checking e-mail down to about 50%. To me, that's more than reasonable as far as smartphone battery life is concerned.

One major downside of the Nexus 4, at least in my opinion, is that it does not have an expansion slot for memory cards. This is can be a make or break aspect for those of us who like to have a large repertoire of music and video files at the ready without having to rely on data plans to stream them for us. When queried for an answer as to why this feature was not implemented, a Google representative said something to the extent of SD cards being an archaic technology and some other condescending nonsense. I found it more comical than anything else that the attitude in response to a legitimate question was one of arrogance, rather than acceptance of one's failure of awareness to consumer demand.

Another meaningful downside is that if you are in the market for a smartphone that will effectively double as your camera, the Nexus is not the best that Android phones have to offer, but it is sufficient in a pinch. From my experience, it's been rather difficult to tame the consistency of photo quality. Video capture quality was fine for my purposes, but the sound capture, as mentioned before, was rather mediocre.

Finally, there are a few more issues with this phone that are less egregious but are nevertheless meaningful to a select group of people.

One is that micro-USB OTG, known as "on-the-go" was initially advertised as supported, but now the Nexus 4 manufacturers have recanted this as a "mistake" after its purchasers discovered otherwise. For those who are unsure of what the feature is, OTG support allows us to power certain devices out of the charging port of the phone, provided that we have the appropriate conversion cables and that the phone can supply enough voltage to whatever is being connected. For instance, with OTG support, we would be able to connect things like keyboards, mice, gaming controllers, and even thumb drives at the obvious expense of less battery life.

Another issue is that the Nexus 4 doesn't seem to handle wired headsets with as much grace as other phones. I only mean to emphasize that this goes for *wired* headsets and not Bluetooth ones. Whether it is a hardware or software problem is outside the realm of my current scope of knowledge about the phone, but the problem seems to be that the volume adjustment affects the strength of the microphone gain. Thus, if you want the volume to be low, the microphone will be accordingly weak. This can be, in actuality, an extremely significant issue for people who are accustomed to making phone calls with wired headsets, since it forces us to blast our ears out with the highest volume only to render the microphone useful. This may be fixed in subsequent updates, but, honestly, this should not even be an issue to begin with in the current generation of phones.

UPDATE: It seems that newer batches of this phone have the microphone gain issue corrected, so if yours does this, LG/Google will likely accept your RMA request and have a new unit sent to you.

Update #2: It seems that Android 4.3 has remedied this issue to a great extent for the remaining phones out there that still have this issue.

Finally, there is no legally accessible LTE support, for those who are looking into jumping on that bandwagon. For those of you who do not know, LTE stands for "long term evolution" and it is, at least of this writing, the fastest method of data transfer between phone and phone service. One can also purchase USB dongles (yes get your giggles out) to plug into our laptops or, if desired, desktop computers as other means of using 4G LTE on more powerful but less portable work or play stations. While the speeds are indeed impressive, with people able to achieve 175 megabits per second (translates to 175/8 or nearly 20 megabytes per second, statistics gathered from a Google search of the terms "4G LTE speedtest") the coverage seems to be rather sparse, limited to only a a few carriers, two being AT&T and Verizon, and mainly within the most metropolitan of cities in the USA. Not only that, but 4G LTE seems to make battery power management a bit more cumbersome. Now, there would be great uses for 4G LTE in terms of using one's phone as a tethering device, which means that other devices, such as a laptop or desktop computer, would connect with your phone's 4G LTE service to gain Internet access that way. Also, in areas where 4G LTE is prevalent, one could quite literally video chat on the fly, which is quite handy for the extreme mobile tech enthusiasts among us. While I've been able to achieve about 10-20 megabits per second in data transfer speed with my HSPA+ data plan, which translates to roughly 1-2 megabytes per second, it's honestly generous enough for all of my applications, whether it be streaming YouTube videos or Spotify/MOG music, but may not be consistent enough for video chatting on the move. For those that can afford it and want near-seamless access to the Internet through their wireless phone service, it might affect their decision to opt with this phone or another one that has FCC licensing for general consumer use of 4G LTE.

Overall, I think the Nexus 4, despite its caveats, is the best bang for the buck as far as Android phones are concerned. For the budget-conscious buyers who want top of the line processor and GPU, this is the phone to get. For those who don't mind that there is no expansion slot and only 16GB max of onboard memory and want the snappiest possible Android experience, this is the phone to get. For those of us who want an hacker-friendly device that's free from the clutches of carrier restrictions, this is the phone to get.

As I learn more about this phone, I'll continue updating or altering parts of this review. Thanks for reading.